that feeling when you meet a new
dog and it's all I click click
Nick and I'm like yeah its Lobby
is that gross
greetings canine connoisseurs
dog devotees puppy pundits okay
I'll stop
I'm Julian this is D news
welcome although cats are the
most popular pet in the u.s.
outnumbering dogs by around
eight million there are about 12
million more households with
dogs presumably because of crazy
cat ladies at least one dnews
episode shows that humans who
live with animals are affected
by the animals microbiome
but what about when those pups
try and lick your face gross
or is it what exactly should I
be feeling I'm I'm so conflicted
first there's a myth out there
that dogs mouths are cleaner
than human's this is not true
both humans and dogs mouths both
contain bacteria and lots of it
but there's really no way to
directly compare because while
they are both males
they're completely different
environments studies the
bacteria of dog mouse have found
hundreds of species of bacteria
with significant differences to
human mouth only sixteen percent
of dog or microbiota overlaps
with humans
another study in the archives of
oral biology says there are
definitely harmful pathogens in
your pup's facehole a separate
study and plus one from 2015
found that oral to oral
transfers of bacteria from dogs
to owners can cause gingivitis
and periodontal disease
p Goulet for example can cause
inflamed gums and even tooth
loss
it's super rare in humans but
common in dogs and sixteen
percent of owners had it
there's even some bacteria and
dogs mouths which are antibiotic
resistant
meaning if it were to spread to
humans we would have trouble
treating it on top of all that
if you have a cut in your mouth
or some bleeding gums from basic
gingivitis bacteria from your
dog's tongue could enter that
open wound and spread infections
deeper into your body
we do have some natural defenses
though both human and dog saliva
has antibacterial properties
their basic but play a part in
wound looking
that doesn't mean you should let
your pet lick your wounds though
case studies have found
infections from another mouth
bacteria and animals called
pasteurella can result a pastor
al infection can be treated with
antibiotics but can also be
dangerous as it
opens the way for more serious
infections so the thing is
yes face looking can be gross
but there's not actually a ton
of danger from infectious
bacteria they are there so being
squeezed out of the idea of
swapping saliva with the dog is
probably warranted but sources
are quick to say both mouths
contain tons of bacteria plus
pet lovers infection goes both
ways
you don't want to infect your
dog with your dirty mouth do you
to be honest you're more likely
to catch an infection by
swapping saliva with another
human than with a dog but just
to be safe
you know the more you know the
better you do you but think
about where you put your mouth
and if you're a kid or elderly
you're even more susceptible to
infection in the end the Centers
for Disease Control recommends
anytime you ever come in contact
with any dog you wash your hands
afterwards maybe splash little
soapy water in your face if
you're getting a puppy kisses to
test tube now has a newsletter
get a weekly roundup of our most
popular videos across all our
shows
test tube com / FWD dogs are
starting to show up everywhere
these days even in bars and
restaurants
should you be worried when
you're sharing a pint with a
poodle bunch of the boxer snacks
with a shih tzu trace answers
all your worries in this video
though you may not see the harm
of having your furry friend
under your table at a restaurant
there are concerns for people
with asthma or allergies and
pets don't understand how their
actions can cause food
contamination you like dogs like
your face
share ice cream with you will
let us know down in the comments
subscribe for more and i'll see
you next time on dnews